docs/ARCHITECTURE.en.md, before:

# 🧭 Architecture — KaleConnect (EN)

This document outlines KaleConnect's high-level architecture, core components, data flows, and external integrations.

## Overview

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Client[Client]
    UI[Next.js App (Web)]
    Wallets[Wallets: Freighter / MetaMask / etc.]
  end

  subgraph WebApp[Web Application (kaleconnect-web)]
    API[Next.js App Router\nRoute Handlers]
    Libs[Libraries: soroban/*, wallets, elisa, webauthn]
  end

  subgraph Services[External Services]
    Horizon[Stellar Horizon API]
    Eliza[ElizaOS API]
  end

  subgraph Soroban[Stellar Soroban]
    KYC[KYC Registry]
    Rates[Rates Oracle]
    Remit[Remittance]
  end

  UI <--> API
  API <---> Libs
  Libs -- HTTP --> Horizon
  Libs -- HTTP --> Eliza
  Libs -- RPC --> KYC
  Libs -- RPC --> Rates
  Libs -- RPC --> Remit

  Wallets -. Signing .- UI
```

## Components

- UI (`kaleconnect-web/src/app`, `src/components`)
- Route Handlers (`kaleconnect-web/src/app/api/*`)
- Integration libraries (`kaleconnect-web/src/lib/*`)
- Smart Contracts (`contracts/*`)

## Key Flows

1) Passkey Authentication (WebAuthn)
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant U as User
  participant Web as Next.js (API)
  participant Dev as Device (Authenticator)

  U->>Web: GET /api/auth/passkey/register/options
  Web-->>U: options (challenge)
  U->>Dev: createCredential(options)
  Dev-->>U: attestation
  U->>Web: POST /register/verify (attestation)
  Web-->>U: success
```

2) Quote and Remittance
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant U as User
  participant Web as Next.js (API)
  participant Rates as Rates Oracle (Soroban)
  participant Remit as Remittance (Soroban)

  U->>Web: GET /api/rates?from=...&to=...&amount=...
  Web->>Rates: query
  Rates-->>Web: rate/fee/toAmount
  Web-->>U: quote
  U->>Web: POST /api/remit
  Web->>Remit: create remittance
  Remit-->>Web: id/status
  Web-->>U: status
```

## Security Considerations

- Passwordless login via WebAuthn
- Input validation with Zod in API routes
- Secrets via environment variables
- Prefer SSH for Git operations

## Scalability

- App Router with lightweight handlers
- Offload settlement logic to Soroban
- Optional caching for rates and async audit processing

Commit message:

docs: atualização completa da documentação bilíngue
✨ Funcionalidades Principais:
- 🔥 Sistema de dados 100% reais integrado
- �� Interface avançada de remessas documentada
- 🛠️ Scripts de desenvolvimento completos
- 📚 Documentação bilíngue (PT-BR/EN) renovada

📄 Arquivos Atualizados:
- README.md e README.en.md - Índices principais
- docs/README.pt-BR.md e docs/README.en.md - Documentação completa
- docs/MANUAL.pt-BR.md e docs/MANUAL.en.md - Manuais operacionais
- docs/ARCHITECTURE.pt-BR.md e docs/ARCHITECTURE.en.md - Arquitetura técnica
- docs/SOROBAN_GUIDE.pt-BR.md e docs/SOROBAN_GUIDE.en.md - Guias Soroban
- docs/RUNBOOKS.pt-BR.md e docs/RUNBOOKS.en.md - Procedimentos operacionais

🔗 Integrações:
- Conteúdo do REAL_DATA_IMPLEMENTATION.md
- Conteúdo do REMITTANCE_IMPROVEMENTS.md
- Conteúdo do SCRIPTS.md
- URLs de produção atualizadas
- IDs de contratos Soroban corretos
- Endpoints de API completamente documentados

🎯 Melhorias:
- Navegação intuitiva com links cruzados
- Exemplos práticos de uso
- Troubleshooting abrangente
- Guia de contribuição detalhado
- Roadmap de desenvolvimento atualizado
- Procedimentos de deployment automatizado

Versão da documentação: 2.0.0

docs/ARCHITECTURE.en.md, after:

# 🧭 Technical Architecture — KaleConnect (EN)

**Complete technical overview of KaleConnect system architecture.**

This document outlines KaleConnect's high-level architecture, core components, data flows, external integrations, and the latest implementations of the real data system and advanced interface.

## Overview

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Client[Client]
    UI[Next.js App (Web)]
    Wallets[Wallets: Freighter / MetaMask / etc.]
  end

  subgraph WebApp[Web Application (kaleconnect-web)]
    API[Next.js App Router\nRoute Handlers]
    Libs[Libraries: soroban/*, wallets, elisa, webauthn]
  end

  subgraph Services[External Services]
    Horizon[Stellar Horizon API]
    Eliza[ElizaOS API]
  end

  subgraph Soroban[Stellar Soroban]
    KYC[KYC Registry]
    Rates[Rates Oracle]
    Remit[Remittance]
  end

  UI <--> API
  API <---> Libs
  Libs -- HTTP --> Horizon
  Libs -- HTTP --> Eliza
  Libs -- RPC --> KYC
  Libs -- RPC --> Rates
  Libs -- RPC --> Remit

  Wallets -. Signing .- UI
```

## Components

- UI (`kaleconnect-web/src/app`, `src/components`)
- Route Handlers (`kaleconnect-web/src/app/api/*`)
- Integration libraries (`kaleconnect-web/src/lib/*`)
- Smart Contracts (`contracts/*`)

## Key Flows

1) Passkey Authentication (WebAuthn)
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant U as User
  participant Web as Next.js (API)
  participant Dev as Device (Authenticator)

  U->>Web: GET /api/auth/passkey/register/options
  Web-->>U: options (challenge)
  U->>Dev: createCredential(options)
  Dev-->>U: attestation
  U->>Web: POST /register/verify (attestation)
  Web-->>U: success
```

2) Quote and Remittance
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant U as User
  participant Web as Next.js (API)
  participant Rates as Rates Oracle (Soroban)
  participant Remit as Remittance (Soroban)

  U->>Web: GET /api/rates?from=...&to=...&amount=...
  Web->>Rates: query
  Rates-->>Web: rate/fee/toAmount
  Web-->>U: quote
  U->>Web: POST /api/remit
  Web->>Remit: create remittance
  Remit-->>Web: id/status
  Web-->>U: status
```

## Security Considerations

- Passwordless login via WebAuthn
- Input validation with Zod in API routes
- Secrets via environment variables
- Prefer SSH for Git operations

## Scalability

- App Router with lightweight handlers
- Offload settlement logic to Soroban
- Optional caching for rates and async audit processing
